>> Nina Zakharenko: Just
a little bit about Git.
I'm sure some of you [LAUGH]
have felt this way before.
This is a classic XKCD comic.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So how do we use it?
No idea, just memorize the Shell commands,
type them, sync up.
Something goes wrong, just blow up
the project, delete it, copy it,
download a fresh copy.
Have you felt like this?
Yeah, lots of emphatic
nodding in the room.
>> Speaker 2: I did
that yesterday.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You did that
yesterday?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Yeah.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Are you excited to
never have to do that again?
>> Speaker 2: I am.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Good,
you're in the right place.
[LAUGH] I have also been here.
It's a sad place, and so
you think, I'm gonna help myself.
I'm going to open a manual page, and then
let me read about the internals of Git.
Well, it might look something like this,
git-acquire-pack Manual Page.
Acquire the non-remoted applied
packs to some blamed unstaged logs.
And you're like, what does this even mean?
So, this is a joke website.
It is a git-man-page-generator.
It does a pretty good job.
They had to put a big warning at
the top to tell people that hey,
this is not an actual git-man-page,
[LAUGH] but it's pretty good.
If you have some free time,
I recommend clicking around.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
the goal of this class is to talk
to you about the porcelain of Git
versus the plumbing of Git.
So, the porcelain is the interface.
It's the commands that you type into
the terminal to interface with Git.
Git branch, Git add, Git commit.
The plumbing is how Git
works under the hood.
So I assume you have a familiarity
with those basic porcelain commands.
But I want you to be able to leave
the workshop and immediately
implement some of the ideas that
we've gone through in your workflow.
So by understanding what's
going on under the hood,
you're gonna have a much easier time
troubleshooting, debugging problems and
just conceptualizing
what's going on in Git.
Towards the end of the class,
I wanna show you some tools that I use
in my daily work, and it's gonna
supercharge your daily work flow.
It's really easy to talk
about the theoretical.
I mean, you can spend weeks, even months,
trying to learning about Git.
Learning about all the different nooks and
crannies.
People use Git in different
ways with different goals.
So my goal is to give you enough
of a foundation of the plumbing so
that you can understand, have an easier
time deep diving into the tools and
features that you personally find
useful for your personal work flow.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So class overview,
we're going to be doing exercises
at the end of almost every chapter.
The exercises are gonna contain any of
the relevant commands that you might need.
So don't worry about trying
to write things down while
we're looking at the slides.
You have a copy of
the slides on your computer.
They're on the Git.
That repository is not going away.
So try to kind of focus on the content
instead of writing things down.
It's all available for you.
Some of the example code
is gonna be in Python.
So if you don't know Python,
don't worry about.
We're really focusing on Git,
and not the programming language.
And I can walk you through
what the code is doing.
In Part 1, we're gonna go through,
what is Git?
How does it work under the hood?
Next, we're gonna dive into the working
area, the staging area, and
the repository, the three main
areas where Git stores your code.
We're gonna do a deep dive
into the staging area.
We're gonna talk about references,
commits, branches, and
stashing.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Then merging and
rebasing, history and diffs,
fixing mistakes, rebase,
>> Nina Zakharenko: The command
that everyone's afraid of,
forks and remote repositories.
And in the final part of the class
we're gonna talk about the danger zone.
So how you can really mess things up and
some strategies for recovering.
We're gonna talk about
some advanced Git tools.
We're gonna talk about how to
customize your Git configuration.
How to set up global ignore files,
Git Hooks, Git Templates.
And in the last two sections,
we're gonna focus on GitHub, so the social
version of Git, how to integrate with
GitHub and continuous integration tools.
And in the final chapter
we're going to work with
the GitHub API.
>> Nina Zakharenko: First, I really
want to drill in why it's important that
we use the command line for this class.
Because there are lots and lots of
graphical Git tools out there that show
you pretty visuals and
they let you double-click to edit.
And drag things around and
drag and drop commits and
do all sorts of other wizardry.
And so now the people in the room
are sitting here looking at me like great,
why am I even here?
[LAUGH] I should just go
download one of these tools and
all my problems will be solved.
Well, that's not the case,
bad news [LAUGH].
If you start out using Git with
one of these graphical tools,
you're really never going to fully
understand what's going on under the hood.
And you'll just be left in the dust
when it comes to fixing mistakes.
To truly get Git, you have to use
the tools as they were designed.
And to do that you need to
use Git on the command line.
I like to think of some of
the graphical Git GUI tools as putting
lipstick on a pig, still a pig.